Saab didn't have a station wagon in its
line
1997 saw the arrival of a completely new
Saab the saab 9-5 the successor to the
Saab 9000
design work on the saab 9-5 started in
1992 and was led by anna Harada who now
had succeeded beyond invar as head of
the design center together with his
colleague Tony Kenton Yanni
they created the basic shape for project
640 which was the internal code for what
was to become the saab 9-5 the goal was
to determine what future buyers were
looking for feedback from the marketing
department played an important role in
determining the final design the shape
of the future saab 9-5
had to be both bold and harmonious so if
boldness was to characterize the
exterior the interior should exude
hockey the driver should have a
harmonious and calm environment to
ensure full concentration of driving the
save time and cost the initial
Windtunnel testing was carried out with
one to five scale models or Cam
Danielson and his team found that the
ideal body shape should be round at the
front and sharper angles at the rear
that the final saab 9-5 at a fairly
round rear but it included numerous
smaller surfaces that served as what
they called steering feathers
the construction of the body was led by
Kent provolone the goal was to design
the safest car in its class here they
could draw an experience from the Saab
9000 and Saab 900 already among the
safest on the market and which could now
be further developed and incorporated in
the new Saab 95 as usual all components
and sub assemblies were tested in the
laboratory to ensure they met the
standards set forth by the project
management
three generations of prototypes were
planned undoped now testing a fully
built up cars could start
they started with winter testing in
northern Sweden during the winter of
1994-95
in truly severe cold they tested the
interior climate system driver and
passenger comfort and the cars behaviour
on varying winter rolls the prototypes
turned out not only to be the
best-looking prototypes ever built but
they also were of such a high quality
that few faults were discovered this
enabled summer testing to be started at
much the same time and for this they
went to Australia and the southwest of
the USA the cars were generally
disguised to hide their identity
durability testing was performed at
various districts the cars were driven
in three-fifths day after day during a
period of 25 weeks in order to rack up
the mileage normally run up in several
years this means particularly severe
strain on the engine the transmission
chassis and exhaust system but even the
interior the controls instruments and
seats was subjected to maximum wear it
was soon clear that the forthcoming saab
9-5 was a highly successful obstruction
the car was revealed for the general
public in the 1997 Motor Show in Geneva
and was given a warm reception by the
world's motoring press the saab 9-5 was
marketed in four distinctive versions
the base model called linear with
equipment level 1 Park with equipment
level 2 vector with equipment level 3
and finally the high performance Niro
war models could be personalized with
choice of upholstery various dashboards
leather clad steering wheel electrically
adjusted seats to mention just a few of
the options all engines were
transversely mounted and all were
turbocharged with an intercooler double
header overhead camshafts four valves
per cylinder double balance shafts and
hydraulic engine markings the engine
range for the saab 9-5 also included a
diesel alternative
the saab 9-5 was awarded the highest
rating of five stars in the european
NCAP crash test mus established on the
Swedish market the folks at insurance
company rated the saab 9-5 is the safest
car of all categories in 2005 based on
the results of real-life studies on all
towers on the road this was a position
once held by its predecessor to psalm
you